# TEAM TECHTOK
## BEAUTY WAND SALON SALON APPOINTMENT SYSTEM

### Context
Beauty Wand is a small business in the beauty industry owned and managed by AT Rodolfo. Beauty salons are under the service sector of the beauty industry. The salon is located in Fairview, Quezon City, and was acquired last January 2020. Like a typical neighborhood salon, Beauty Wand offers services that make your hair, face, nails, and skin more aesthetic. Their list of services includes hair rebonding, hair cut, hair color, hair perming, regular manicures, regular pedicures, foot spa, laser hair removal, glutathione injection and drip, and eyebrow microblading and shading. The company currently has two regular employees who specialize in different services. Before the pandemic and community quarantine, Beauty Wand serves 10 to 15 customers per day. On special holidays and occasions such as Valentine’s or Christmas season, this number could increase to 20 to 25 customers per day. On special occasions and holidays, the owner also hires contract-based workers in order to match the demand from the customers.

The business process that TechTok would be focusing on is sales and operations. The team would focus on how to make connecting with customers easier for the salon. Through the use of an online scheduling system, Techtok would be able to manage and save the time of its stakeholders.  It would also help in efficiently using the salon’s space in the context of social distancing protocols. Overall, Techtok aims to reach more customers, and to maximize the time and space the salon is open in order to bring more profit. 


### Need
Due to the pandemic and the Enhanced Community Quarantine (ECQ) in Metro Manila, the salon was temporarily closed and lost almost three months worth of income. However, after the Interagency Task Force (IATF) Committee announced that salons can reopen and conduct services, Beauty Wand returned to being operational. In order to protect its stakeholders, the salon is following IATF protocols such as social distancing, temperature checks, wearing of face masks, and contactless payments.

Despite being operational, the salon is still losing income. Although Metro Manila shifts to the General Community Quarantine (GCQ), there are still a few people outside their homes, and going to beauty salons is not deemed as an essential task. As a result,  there is a low volume of customers (maximum of ten customers a day regardless if it’s a weekday or a weekend) which means that there is low to no profit for the salon. Aside from that, the salon owner would still have to pay expenses on rent, utilities, and staff salaries. Furthermore, the salon could only accommodate a maximum of three customers at a time due to the social distancing protocol. As a result, there are times when the salon is busy and full, while there are also times when the salon is empty. Whenever a potential customer drops by and is informed about the long queue, the customer would immediately leave without availing any salon service in order to save his/her time.

Given the situation, TechTok proposes to create an online scheduling system to efficiently schedule appointments inside and outside the salon (through home service). The salon owner would need a system that would help her connect to potential customers and salon-goers, and manage customers’ needs and appointments.  Through an online scheduling system, the owner would be able to gather information on how to manage the salon’s operating hours and maximize its space. Overall, the online scheduling system is important to develop now to stop the salon from losing income and to further bring quality services to its customers. 

### Value
The online scheduling system that will be developed for Beauty Wand will allow the business to be more efficient in its daily operations, such that the business processes could function and proceed more smoothly and more successfully. The same system will also enable the various elements (hardware, software, people, etc.) to work hand in hand easily for the business goal to be fulfilled effectively. Thus, the system would be important for the salon as it does not only allow for an improvement in the major business processes but also in the quality of service and the work environment.

Automating the current processes of the business allows for a more organized way of recording customer information. With the online scheduling system, the appointments ought to be scheduled quickly and automatically in contrast to listing them by hand. This system avoids the scattering of information as appointments would be situated online, which could then be accessed by the owner and the employees remotely. Furthermore, the business would be able to keep track of its customers and grasp the trend in their visits and demographics. 

By incorporating the new system, some benefits for the business may be realized. First, it would save time for both the employees and the customers. On one hand, the employees will not be needing to answer many phone calls for appointments; on the other hand, the customers would be able to cut the waiting time to be entertained on the phone as the new process could be done with just a few clicks. The 24/7 online availability allows for appointments that do not revolve around the regular salon hours. Hence, the online scheduling system removes the barrier between the schedules of the customers and the business with regard to booking an appointment. Second, no-shows will be lessened, considering their reason for not showing was forgetting the appointment, because they will be provided with a message (for instance, via email) as regards their schedule. They will also be reminded by the system on the day of their appointment itself. Third, and last, the systems ought to improve customer experience by preventing double bookings due to the lack of organization.

The aforementioned benefits of the systems address the need for earning the lost revenue. Recognizing the consumers' behavior leads to increased profitability such that the business has the capability to entice customers, either new or old, to avail of the services again and/or try other services. For instance, the convenience of having an online scheduling system may induce the customers to book an appointment, either for the first time or again, to avoid waiting in long lines for walk-ins in other competitors. Meanwhile, diminishing the number of no-shows provides the business with more profit, and thus garnering the business with greater tangible values. Consequently, a good customer experience imparts a good perception of the branding and the identity of the business, leading to greater visibility in the market.
